Role : Data Scientist 
Company : S&P Global 
Industry : Financial Services
JobType : on-Site full-time
Location : Hyderabad 

The Team :: 

As a member of the Commodity Insights you will work on building and deploying ML/LLM powered products and capabilities to power natural language understanding, 
data extraction, information retrieval and data sourcing solutions for S&P Global Market Intelligence and our clients. 
You will be responsible for the management, deployment and optimization of ML Models and pipelines while leading-by-example in a highly engaging work environment. 
You will work in a (truly) global team and encouraged for thoughtful risk-taking and self-initiative.


Responsibilities ::

Play a central role in all stages of the AI product development life cycle, including:
Designing Machine Learning systems and model scaling strategies
Research & Implement ML and Deep learning algorithms for production
Run necessary ML tests and benchmarks for model validation
Fine-tune, retrain and scale existing model deployments
Extend existing ML library’s and write packages for reproducing components
Partner with business leaders, domain experts, and end-users to gain business understanding, data understanding, and collect requirements
Interpret results and present them to business leaders
Manage production pipelines for enterprise scale projects
Perform code reviews & optimization for your projects and team
Lead and mentor by example, including project scrums

Technical Requirements ::

Proven track record as a ML engineer
Expert proficiency in Python (Numpy, Pandas, Spacy, Sklearn, Pytorch/TF2, HuggingFace etc.)
Excellent exposure to large scale model deployment strategies and tools
Excellent knowledge of ML & Deep Learning domain
Solid exposure to Information Retrieval, Web scraping and Data Extraction at scale
Knowledge in AWS Technologies: Terraform, CFT, Lambda, Fargate, ECS and also in SQL, Docker and Django.
Experience with SOTA models related to NLP like Classification, Summarization, Phrase extraction, Table Extraction and OCR 
Open to learning new technologies and programming languages as required
Knowledge in model monitoring and retrain & tuning of models

Good To Have :: 

4+ years of relevant experience in ML Engineering
Prior substantial experience regarding document processing 


Things to scan from a Job Description :::::
1. Job title 
2. Company name 
3. Industry 
4. Job type 
5. Role summary 
6. Technical Requirements / Hard skills
7. Soft skills
8. Responsibilities or Job description 
9. Education & Experience or Qualification 
10. Benefits / facilities 
11. Salary range 
12. Interview rounds 


